So my name is Maximiliano,
I know it's a long name so
I can go by Max this is building
PWAs from Scratch, so welcome.
I will go really quickly about
myself I'm a mobile web developer so
I'm from Argentina, from Bueno Aires.
So I've been doing web development
since 1995 so long time ago, and
also mobile apps since 2001,
before the iPhone before the Android.
So, I have started actually with Netscape,
I have been doing,
my first website was actually built
with DOS, just to get you an idea.
Okay, so anyway, so
I have been working on the web and
publishing content for a while.
So I have a lot of books that I offer,
and the latest books are on web
performance and also I have been authored
some articles and content on PWA.
That's the topic that we're
going to cover today so
you can find some of the content that
I have been offering at fir .dev,
that's my website, so it's time to start.
So before starting, let's see quickly
what we're going to cover today so
we're going to start with the web app,
I understand that you know how to create
the web app, but it's not yet a PWA.
So we're going to understand
why it's not a PWA and
how to make insolation we're
going to set up icons.
We're going to see how to enhance the UI,
because now we're going to be
rendering content outside of the browser,
not just within the browser UI.
We're going to be an app and
a standalone app and
that needs some new
improvements in terms of CSS.
And how we are dealing with UI by going to
the Service Worker a nd if you don't know
what that is, don't worry,
we're going to get there.
We're going to make an offline experience
we're going to see also how to,
let's say,
invite our users to install the app.
And also we're going to cover and
discuss about the apps Store and
how we can actually distribute
our PWA in the app store.
I understand that you know HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript so
that's all you don't need to know anything
about mobile apps or native apps or.
Android apps or iOS apps, just web,
okay, you are a web designer,
or you're a web developer.
So you will be able now to create your
own first progressive web app we going,
just start talking about
what's a PWA okay.
So, what's a PWA well, PWA of course
stands for precisive web app,
probably you know that,
but, what understand.
So this is a the cover article
that I offer for net magazine and
I really like the idea that the PWA is
actually the current DNA of the web.
And this is important PWA is
just the web it's actually a set
of practices is like the sign pattern.
To create app like experiences using just
the web dot from that we know and we love.
So let's try to define Progressive Web App
and first I have maybe bad
news it's an open definition,
which means that we don't have a clear,
straightforward definition of
what a progressive web app is.
In fact, maybe you have already done
a PWA at some point at least so,
but let's say that it's an app that
is built with web technologies.
Sometimes it's not clear also,
what's an app like, for example,
is Wikipedia an app or
is just a website okay.
So, I mean, it's not so clear,
but let's say that It's
something that looks like an app or
it has services from an app, but
completely developed
using web technologies.
It can work online or offline and probably
that the last part is actually new for us.
Okay, now we can make that app available
even without user's connection,
without network connection,
it's installable and
this is also new and
I'm not talking about a bookmark, okay?
I'm talking about a real installation
in the operating system and
the icon that we are installing will
actually have Stand Alone experience.
Which means it will be rendered
outside of the browser completely
separated from the browser at
least from a user's perspective
because we still have the that
browser behind the scenes.
Because it's a steal the web isn't this
is not like we are taking a website and
we are compiling that
website into a native app.
That's not the case we are still
under the web platform,
under the web umbrella so and this is
ideal for all those apps out there.
There are just consuming web content or
web services if you think about this,
just take your phone and
see how many of those apps.
That you have there are actually just
consuming a JSON from a web server,
or just content can be even HTML.
They don't have anything else and
the PWA platform are the techniques
that we're gonna see today are clearly
ideal for these situations.
Because think about this when if you're
just creating a native app with Kotlin for
Android, or with Swift for iOS.
Or even if you're using
things like react Native,
you're actually creating a browser,
you're creating your own browser.
And we already have a browser and
we already have a lot of technologies and
languages in the web platform
that is not just HTML and CSS.
Today, we have things like web assembly,
web RTC so
there are a lot of API's that
are actually behind this
web platform umbrella that can
actually add more power to our PWA.
And it's also ideal for you if you're here
it means that you're a web designer or
web developer so
you actually work with the web.
And now when you have a client that
is asking you for a nap, you can say,
yeah, I can do that we can do
apps now it's not just a website.
And even if you're thinking about
the app store, we can actually ship,
a PWA in app stores and
we're gonna see how to do that later.
So the PWA platform, it's actually
empowering all of us now we can create
experiences not just for the browser but
also for different operating systems